let's talk a little bit about toxicity
so one of the things that gamers
struggle with is that their brains are
so used to like the more you play games
and Men especially are are really good
at this we're really good at suppressing
our emotions and games actually shut off
of our emotional circuitry and so what
happens is games gamers become something
called Alexa thymic so alexithymia is
the inability to recognize your internal
emotional state and so what happens is a
lot of gamers actually are their
emotions rolling around inside of them
but they're not aware of them because
there are parts of their brain that are
kind of suppressing them all the time so
let's say that like you know I get into
a fight with my parents and then I turn
on a videogame and then like all those
emotions just get shut off and so a lot
of times what happens with gamers is
that they feel like everything is fine
they feel like oh yeah they're happy and
they're healthy and they enjoy gaming
but what actually happens is they have a
lot of sub-surface emotions that they're
not even aware of and that's what
alexithymia is and then what happens is
those those emotions kind of bubble to
the surface and start to impact their
life so what what ends up happening is
when they're alexithymia cuz gamers get
this illusion that they're not actually
experiencing negative emotions and a lot
of gamers that I talk to I'll ask them
like you know you know what's your
relationship with your emotions I mean I
don't ask that because that's a weird
question like I don't know how even I
would answer that but then the more I
ask them about essentially the
relationship to their emotions what they
come back with is that oh I'm in control
of my emotions and so when we talk about
that like the funny thing about gamers
is that they they feel like they're in
control of their emotions and by control
of their emotions what that means so
that they can watch like let's say a sad
movie and like everyone else around them
is crying but they're not crying and so
they're also like able to be in
uncomfortable situations and like be
kind of essentially like a blank slate
and so if we really think about it what
that means is that a lot of gamers it's
not that they're in control of their
emotions like Vulcans what that really
means is that they're just they they
just know how to suppress their emotions
and as those emotions get suppressed
it's kind of like this this emotional
like pile is like building and building
and building inside you and I'll give
you guys kind of an example for my
personal life like I remember feeling
like a failure right so I would wake up
every day I would skip class I would
like game until I was exhausted and I'd
like pass out at 4:00 in the morning and
every day that went by I'd feel more and
more like a failure and the only way
that I could get I could tolerate those
feelings was by escaping through gaming
and then I kind of I kind of like I kind
of got stuck because what would happen
is like every day that goes by I'm not
moving forward in life and I'm actually
failing in life more and more and more
and more and the only way that I could
so like day one let's say I feel like a
failure of 5 out of 10 and day 2 it's 6
out of 10 because now I've up for
2 days
day 3 is 7 out of 10 and so I'm digging
myself deeper and deeper and deeper and
the more and more failure I feel inside
me the more I have to turn to video
games to like make that feeling of
failure go away and so the more I turn
to video games the less for I mean the
more stuck I get and so it's this
vicious cycle and so gamers kind of get
into this and so the only way that they
learn how to manage their emotions
because gaming leads to escapism is
through playing video games and so they
have this gigantic pile of emotion
that's building up and I remember for me
sometimes like there are some moments
and if you guys really pay attention to
your lives maybe you can find out like
when are these moments but for me there
were some moments that the emotions
would just come flooding back and be
like completely overwhelming and for me
that was when I was going to bed at
night right so I'd like finish gaming
and if I got into bed and like my mind
would start to wander it would start to
think about how I was screwing up my
life and I would feel such an
overwhelming sense of hopelessness shame
and guilt that it was like intolerable
so what I had to do was game so much
until I got so mentally exhausted that
when I hit the sack I would just pass
out